what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to the vlog so this week
I'm gonna attempt the most ambitious
videos that I've ever done I'm gonna try
and film a little bit of my day every
single day of this week so you guys can
get a good idea of what it is like to be
in a full week of medical school so
hopefully you guys enjoy it's gonna be a
really interesting video I think so it's
Monday morning now it is 7:30 and I'm
heading to placement this week I'm
attached to the GI ward or the
gastrointestinal ward we have a couple
of options that we can do we can either
stay in clinics go on a ward round or go
to theaters so obviously I'm going to
theaters because last week when I was in
theaters I actually got to assist you
guys can see a little bit more about
that on my Instagram page I'll leave it
linked over here anyways it's starting
to rain a little bit and this camera is
definitely not weather proof are you
gonna put it away and I'll catch up with
you guys in a bit
[Music]
so early dawn
all right so that morning didn't exactly
go to plan the consultant whose
surgeries I was supposed to be observing
is apparently on holiday I showed up at
the hospital at 8:30 in the morning and
nobody was there for me so I decided to
sit in on a gastrointestinal clinic I
saw a bunch of very interesting patients
all revolving around colorectal cancer
and I even managed to take a full
patient history by myself I also did an
abdominal exam on him and then I
reported all my findings back to the
consultant and then we went back to the
patient and talk together about
management and treatment because those
are things that I'm not really sure
about so I'm really really proud that I
managed to do that I also saw more
digital rectal exams today than I would
care to see so it's nice to get a break
from that as well so anyways that was a
useful morning session in clinical
placement and now I'm gonna continue on
with my day
Thursday's video is not ready for upload
so I have quite a bit of editing to do
which is what I'm working through right
now hopefully I can finish editing this
video by tomorrow night so that on
Wednesday I can spend a full day
studying for my upcoming progress test
[Music]
good morning it is about 8:40 on Tuesday
morning I'm heading to meet my scholarly
project partner in order to continue
working on our research project that
we're hopefully going to be able to
submit by December currently on
Westminster Bridge as the London Eye
[Music]
I'm sitting outside of st. Thomas's
Hospital whispering they're basically
we're working on a research project in
the field of pediatrics most of the work
that we're doing right now involves
patient data collection we have a list
of patients with certain characteristics
that we're interested in and then we
have to troll through their patient data
in order to find specific pieces of
information that will be relevant to our
research paper some of these patients
have hundreds of documents for us to
look through so we're basically going to
be doing this all day from 9:00 till
5:00 so I think I'm gonna get going it
is now 10 to 9 and I need to be there 9
a.m. for a fresh start it's a long day
ahead but it is an interesting research
project so I'm happy to do it I'm at
Evalina Children's Hospital now we've
been collecting patient data for about 4
hours so I think it's time to break and
get some lunch we're going through the
list quite a decent pace but we just
have so many patients to get through
though we definitely need to dedicate
more time to this over the coming weeks
just another busy day in medical school
and I've bumped into somebody that I
think you'll be pretty excited to see
[Music]
how amazing is this light to check this
out
[Music]
pretty nice eh
so it's about 5:00 p.m. now we're done
with patient collection for the day we
managed to get a lo of work done so I'm
really happy about that I'm gonna start
heading home because I have a 10 minute
presentation tomorrow and I haven't
started getting ready for that
so definitely gonna need a little bit of
time
[Music]
all right better start heading home
all right back home now managed to call
my girlfriend and catch up for a little
bit so the presentation that I have
tomorrow that I was telling you guys
about is part of our doctor as teacher
and module which is supposed to get our
teaching skills up to par because
obviously a big part of the doctors job
is to be able to teach so every medical
student has been assigned a 10-minute
presentation to teach anything that is
non-medical so the skill that I've
chosen to teach is how to spend a pen in
between your fingers now obviously this
is not a very useful skill that's gonna
help you be a better doctor or anything
maybe it'll help with dexterity if you
want to be a surgeon so the
presentations tomorrow and I haven't
started preparing yet seeing as I've
been talking to a camera for the last
year and a half I think I'm gonna be
okay I'm just gonna practice what I
would say in class when I'm teaching
this penspinning thing and that's where
you guys will see a time lapse of right
now
alright guys I'm just gonna give you a
quick behind-the-scenes of how I make
some of my thumbnails as you can see
over there I've got the massive massive
light and then behind me over here got
my iPad and my monitor with a bunch of
Medicine related things and this is
gonna be for an upcoming video that
video will have already been out by the
time you guys see this if you haven't
seen it already definitely click the
link up here and go check it out after
this video but I think this is about as
much productivity as I can do in one day
and I will pick up this vlog and see you
tomorrow
presentation starts in three minutes
alright so Brandon early on a Wednesday
morning I don't have time to explain
what we usually do on Wednesdays right
now because I am definitely a bit late
to my presentation so I need to hustle
get over there and I'll catch up with
you guys after that
[Music]
all right stops actually pretty
interesting it was a nice break from the
usual presentations that we do at
medical school which are obviously a
little bit more stressful and more
serious this was kind of like no
expectations just go in have a little
bit of fun and practice how to teach
today is Wednesday which is the only day
of the week that we don't have anything
scheduled which means I can actually go
to the library and get some proper work
done so our progress test is in a week
and a bit now and I really need to get
studying so I'm gonna go to the library
and have a really good long session of
going through practice questions and
learning all the upcoming material
[Music]
all right so I've been studying for
quite a few hours now
it is currently 5:15 p.m. I was starting
to get quite drowsy in the library so I
went and got myself a coffee and I'm
gonna push through for a couple more
hours until 8 a.m. when a couple of the
graduate medics on the KCl course we're
gonna meet up for some drinks and dinner
at a place called the Mercato Mercato
metropolitano this sort of really nice
open area with lots of different food
places that you can get food from so I'm
really looking forward to that as a nice
way to end the day as a reward for all
those hours in the library I figured you
guys could use a change of scenery so
I've come to my sister's room the first
time she'll know that I used her room is
when she watches this video so hey twin
hope you don't mind this very long
Wednesday has come to a close it's
currently 10:50 it's pretty late at
night it's been quite a long day I've
done a lot it's been very productive so
I'm really happy about that I'm just
gonna jump in the shower watch something
and relax and then go straight to sleep
I hope you guys are enjoying this format
where I'm walking you through the whole
week definitely let me know by leaving a
comment down below and a like on this
video I'd really appreciate some
feedback and I'll see you guys tomorrow
morning for another exciting day of
clinical placement good morning guys
it's early on a Thursday morning which
means it's another day that we're on
clinical placement the weather is
absolutely horrible as I'm taking refuge
underneath this like little park
structure here in the afternoon have
been assigned something quite exciting
there's a multidisciplinary meeting for
the intensive care unit patients under
the GI team so I'm really excited to see
that and sort of see how all the
different members of the healthcare team
sit down talk together and discuss what
might be in the best interests of the
patient given their very very
complicated situations in the meantime
up until that meeting I'm gonna spend a
couple of hours in the hospital here at
the library just trying to get some work
done studying for our upcoming tests as
I know I still have quite a bit of work
to do for that anyways let's get this
day started and go to the hospital
[Music]
so I just attended the multidisciplinary
team meeting and honestly it was very
interesting to attend I'm happy that I
went I'm currently in the common room
for medical students at this hospital
may give you guys a quick tour just got
a bunch of lockers everywhere a couple
of computers couple couches so during
the meeting everyone spoke very fast and
used a lot of acronyms so I was
constantly on my phone googling things
but even though I don't understand
everything that's going on I find it
really useful to sit in on these
meetings and sort of try and follow one
patient at a time
how they presented in the hospital the
different differential diagnoses what
investigations were done to try and
figure out what was going on and then
ultimately what the investigation showed
and how the treatment and management is
going to move forward from there so I
think that's all the clinical stuff that
I'm gonna do today I'm gonna go for
lunch now with a friend and then
probably spend a couple more hours
studying in the library before going to
the cinema with a couple of friends to
watch the Joker
[Music]
all right Friday morning
so Fridays are pretty interesting this
year we alternate between one week being
on mental health placement so we got
placed in a mental health hospital where
we get to see things like eating
disorders personality disorders it's
really really interesting stuff and then
on alternating weeks we have what I call
balance groups which if I remember this
correctly are originally groups that GP
is used in order to discuss patients
that they saw that left an impact on
them it sort of gives an opportunity for
medical students to talk about something
that might be upsetting them or maybe
they saw a patient that caused them a
little bit of distress helps build this
community feeling so I'm currently on
Victoria Station in London it is 9:30 in
the morning and luckily these things
start at 10:00 a.m. nan 9 so it's nice
to get a break and I'll start so early
today anyways I'm gonna take the
remainder of this 10-minute train ride
to respond to your messages on insta
morrow
[Music]
think with her
alright guys so it's Friday evening I've
finally finished studying and I can now
go and relax I haven't done any exercise
since the run that I did on Sunday so
I'm gonna meet up with a couple of
friends to play basketball for the next
two hours made the excited to get some
exercise in and just relieve some of the
stress that's built up over this week
after that we'll probably grab some
dinner and then meet up at a friend's
house to play some video games and chill
have a nice relaxed Friday evening in
just get to de-stress I can wake up and
it's time you again roll over tomorrow
[Music]
oh my gosh guys two hours of continuous
non-stop basketball later I'm home I'm
showered I'm just so exhausted I've got
my protein shake over here I'm gonna
drink this and then order some food and
go over to my friends house gonna chill
there spend some time relax and enjoy my
Friday night we have actually made it
from Monday to Friday and I've recorded
by a lot actually every single day this
has been a really big project for me you
know taking this huge big camera let me
show you guys it's pretty big it's not
the smallest thing in the world so I've
taken the camera with me everywhere it's
University to three different hospitals
to my friends house to basketball
practice just everywhere please do leave
me feedback in a comment down below
about this sort of different editing
style compared to my usual vlogs also of
course don't forget to like this video
share with your friends leave me a
comment subscribe etc etc it really
helps motivate me continue making videos
and it shows me you guys are actually
enjoying the content that I'm producing
anyways guys it's been an interesting
experience it's been a fun experience
and I hope you've enjoyed this week long
vlog and I will catch you in the next
one face